THE FINAL FRONTIER.
Kirk: SPACE:
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
TO BOLDLY GO
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 6770.3.
THE ENTERPRISE IS ON COURSE
FOR THE PLANET BABEL,
FROM ALL FEDERATION PLANETS
WHERE AMBASSADORS
DISTINGUISHED PASSENGER,
ARE WAITING TO HONOR
THE ENTERPRISE'S
COMMODORE ROBERT APRIL,
THE U.S.S. ENTERPRISE,
FIRST CAPTAIN OF
FEDERATION AMBASSADOR-AT-LARGE.
AND FOR THE PAST 20 YEARS,
NOW 75 YEARS OLD,
COMMODORE APRIL HAS REACHED
MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE.
NO MATTER WHERE I'VE TRAVELED
IN THE GALAXY, JIM,
THIS BRIDGE IS MORE LIKE HOME
THAN ANYWHERE ELSE.
I KNOW THE FEELING.
YES, COMMODORE,
TO ME SHE WAS ALWAYS
LIKE MY CHILD.
THE SAN FRANCISCO NAVY YARDS
I WAS THERE IN
COMPONENTS WERE BUILT.
WHEN HER UNIT
JIM, I DIDN'T REALIZE
HOW MANY OF THE TOOLS
WERE DESIGNED BY SARAH.
I USE IN SICKBAY
AS THE FIRST MEDICAL OFFICER
ABOARD A SHIP EQUIPPED
WITH WARP DRIVE,
I'M AFRAID I HAD TO COME UP
WITH NEW IDEAS ALL THE TIME.
YOUR MODESTY IS UNNECESSARY,
MRS. APRIL.
IN SPACE ARE WELL KNOWN.
AS A PIONEER DOCTOR
YOUR ACHIEVEMENTS
McCoy: AND IT'S NICE TO KNOW
THE LADY IS AS INTELLIGENT
AS SHE IS BEAUTIFUL.
MUCH LIKE THE FLOWER
SHE CARRIES.
WILL GET YOU EVERYWHERE.
OH, DOCTOR, FLATTERY
MY FLOWER IS DYING.
BUT I'M AFRAID
CAPELLA IV, ISN'T IT?
IT'S A NATIVE OF
YES, BUT IT HAS A LIFE SPAN
OF ONLY A FEW HOURS.
IT WAS A SEEDLING,
THIS MORNING
WITHIN A FEW HOURS
IT WILL BE DEAD.
EXCUSE ME, CAPTAIN.
NOTIFIED WHEN WE MADE
YOU ASKED TO BE
VISUAL CONTACT WITH
THE BETA NIOBE NOVA.
THANK YOU, MR. SPOCK.
YOU'RE ABOUT TO SEE ANOTHER
MRS. APRIL,
MOST BEAUTIFUL SIGHTS,
OF THE GALAXY'S
THE BETA NIOBE'S SUPERNOVA.
Sarah: IT IS BEAUTIFUL,
BUT ALSO VERY DEADLY.
FROM THE NOVA, MRS. APRIL.
AT A SAFE DISTANCE
WE'RE TRAVELING
BETA NIOBE. YOU WERE PRESENT
WHEN THE STAR FIRST STARTED
ITS EXPLOSION, JIM.
-YES, WE WERE, COMMODORE.
-CAPTAIN.
SENSORS ARE PICKING UP
AN UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT
AN INCREDIBLE SPEED,
TRAVELING AT
PRESENTLY ON COLLISION COURSE
WITH THE ENTERPRISE.
PUT THE SHIP ON RED ALERT.
HOW FAST IS IT TRAVELING,
MR. SPOCK?
AT A SPEED THAT SHOULD BE
IMPOSSIBLE TO ACHIEVE.
THE ORDER OF WARP 36.
SOMETHING ON
NO NATURAL OBJECT HAS
EVER BEEN RECORDED
AS TRAVELING AT THAT SPEED.
NOT A NATURAL OBJECT,
I BELIEVE IT IS
BUT A SHIP.
THE TECHNOLOGY TO BUILD A SHIP
BUT WHO WOULD HAVE
TRAVEL AT SUCH A SPEED?
THAT COULD
NO KNOWN RACE, CAPTAIN.
CONTACT US IN 1.4 MINUTES.
NEVERTHELESS, IT WILL
CHANGE COURSE FOR 24 MARK 7.
HARD ABOUT, HELMSMAN.
CORRECTION, CAPTAIN, THE SHIP
WAS ON A COLLISION COURSE
ONLY BY COINCIDENCE.
HEADING FOR THE HEART
IT IS APPARENTLY
OF THE BETA NIOBE NOVA.
THAT'S A COURSE OF
SELF-DESTRUCTION.
OPEN HAILING FREQUENCIES.
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
THAT SHIP'S CAPTAIN.
I WANT TO TALK TO
THAT SHIP IS NOT RESPONDING.
CAPTAIN,
ALL RIGHT, IF THEY WON'T TALK,
WE'LL SLOW THEM DOWN.
MR. SULU, PUT A TRACTOR BEAM
ON THAT SHIP.
AND OPERATING, CAPTAIN.
TRACTOR BEAM ON
A SMALL EFFECT ON OTHER
SHIP'S SPEED, CAPTAIN.
WE'RE HAVING
A SPEED OF WARP 32.
IT HAS DROPPED TO
MAKING VISUAL CONTACT.
CAPTAIN, THEY ARE
PUT IT ON THE SCREEN,
LIEUTENANT.
[SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
THAT LANGUAGE BEFORE.
I'VE NEVER HEARD
NOR I.
RUN THAT MESSAGE THROUGH
THE UNIVERSAL TRANSLATOR,
LIEUTENANT UHURA.
PERHAPS IT CAN TELLS US
SHE IS SPEAKING IN.
WHAT LANGUAGE
THE UNIVERSAL TRANSLATOR
HAS THE ANSWER.
CAPTAIN,
THE WOMAN IS SPEAKING
IN THE SAME UNIVERSAL
LANGUAGE WE SPEAK,
BUT SHE IS SPEAKING
IN REVERSE.
LIEUTENANT, LET'S HEAR
THAT TAPE BACKWARD,
WHICH SHOULD SOUND
FORWARD TO US.
Uhura: YES, SIR,
ON THE SCREEN.
I AM ON A PRIORITY MISSION.
SLOWING MY PROGRESS.
YOUR BEAM IS
RELEASE MY SHIP AT ONCE,
OR I AM DOOMED.
OPEN HAILING FREQUENCIES
AGAIN, LIEUTENANT.
ENDANGERING HER LIFE
TELL HER SHE IS
HER PRESENT COURSE.
IF SHE REMAINS ON
SHE'S REFUSING TO ANSWER.
NO USE, SIR.
-Scotty: CAPTAIN.
-YES, SCOTTY, WHAT IS IT?
THE ENGINES ARE BUCKLING!
Scotty: CAPTAIN,
WE CANNOT KEEP UP
AT THIS SPEED.
MR. AREX, WHAT IS OUR SPEED?
NOW AT WARP 11, CAPTAIN.
THE ALIEN VESSEL MAKES CONTACT
MR. SPOCK, HOW LONG UNTIL
WITH THE BETA NIOBE NOVA?
THREE MINUTES, 42.7 SECONDS.
THREE-AND-A-HALF MINUTES,
Kirk: GIVE ME
SCOTTY.
STILL INCREASING SPEED,
CAPTAIN.
WARP 14.
WARP 15.
I HAVE NO CHOICE.
I HAVE TO RELEASE
THE TRACTOR BEAM.
I CAN'T DESTROY THIS SHIP
AND 430 PEOPLE TO SAVE
ONE PERSON.
MR. SULU, RELEASE OUR BEAM.
SIR, I CAN'T RELEASE
THE TRACTOR BEAM.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN, MR. SULU?
ARE INOPERATIVE.
OUR CONTROLS
THE SHIP ISN'T RESPONDING
LIKE IT SHOULD.
GO TO MANUAL OVERRIDE.
Sulu: NOT RESPONDING, SIR.
RELEASE THAT BEAM,
WE'VE GOT TO
THAT SHIP INTO THE NOVA!
OR WE'RE GONNA FOLLOW
OUR SPEED IS NOW WARP 20
IN ONE MINUTE, 58.3 SECONDS.
WILL CONTACT THE NOVA
AND THE OTHER SHIP
I'M SORRY, COMMODORE,
MRS. APRIL.
WE MAY NOT REACH BABEL.
IT LOOKS AS THOUGH
TO GIVE OUR LIVES, CAPTAIN.
AS STARSHIP PERSONNEL,
WE WERE ALWAYS PREPARED
STARSHIP PERSONNEL,
WE ARE STILL
CAPTAIN.
THERE'S STILL ONE CHANCE.
AFTER THAT SHIP
ENTERS THE NOVA,
IT SHOULD BURN UP
WITH OUR TRACTOR BEAM.
AND BREAK CONTACT
MR. SPOCK, HOW LONG
WILL WE HAVE TO APPLY
FULL BRAKING POWER
AND EXECUTE COURSE CHANGE?
AND INCREASING, CAPTAIN.
WE ARE UP TO WARP 22
WE SHALL HAVE 42.85 SECONDS
TO CORRECT OUR COURSE
SHIP ENTERS THE NOVA.
AFTER THE ALIEN
-YOU HEARD THAT, MR. SULU.
-AYE, AYE, SIR.
MR. SCOTT, WE'RE GOING TO
APPLY FULL BRAKING POWER
IN A MINUTE.
OUR ENGINES ARE ALMOST GONE.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
THIS LONG AT THIS SPEED
THEY'VE ONLY LASTED
BECAUSE THE ALIEN VESSEL
OUR OWN TRACTOR BEAM.
IS PULLING US WITH
IN 52.3 SECONDS, CAPTAIN.
WILL CONTACT BETA NIOBE
THE ALIEN VESSEL
CONTACT IN 39 SECONDS,
38, 37...
...13, 12, 11...
COURSE CHANGE, MR. SULU.
GET READY TO EXECUTE
YES, SIR.
Kirk: NOW, MR. SULU!
SOMETHING'S WRONG, CAPTAIN.
WE'RE STILL BEING PULLED
BY THE ALIEN SHIP.
IMPOSSIBLE! IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN
DESTROYED INSTANTLY.
APPARENTLY IT WAS NOT,
CAPTAIN.
IS STILL CONNECTED TO HER.
OUR TRACTOR BEAM
AND WE ARE STILL
INCREASING SPEED.
CONTACT WITH THE NOVA
IN 35.18 SECONDS.
THAT OTHER SHIP MAY HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO SURVIVE
THE HEAT OF A NOVA,
BUT THE ENTERPRISE CAN'T.
THAT FULL BRAKING POWER?
MR. SCOTT, HOW ABOUT
WE'RE AS BADLY OFF
AS BEFORE, CAPTAIN.
WE HAVE NO CONTROL
OF THE SHIP AS LONG
AS THAT ALIEN LASSIE
HAS US IN TOW.
CONTACT IN 20 SECONDS.
KEEP TRYING THOSE CONTROLS,
MR. SULU!
STILL NO CHANGE, CAPTAIN.
IT'S GOT TO WORK!
14 SECONDS, 13, 12...
NEVER MIND, MR. SPOCK,
IT'S NO USE.
[CRASHING]
WE'RE STILL HERE.
CAN YOU GET US A VISUAL?
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
WHAT?
WHERE ARE WE?
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 6770.6.
INTO THE MOST ALIEN LANDSCAPE
THE ENTERPRISE HAS PASSED
I HAVE EVER SEEN.
REVERSE UNIVERSE
WE ARE IN SOME
SHINE IN A WHITE VOID.
WHERE BLACK STARS
WE ARE STILL IN THE TOW
OF THE ALIEN SHIP,
SURVIVED THE EXTREME HEAT
BOTH OF US HAVING
OF THE BETA NIOBE NOVA.
CALLING THE CAPTAIN.
THIS IS SCOTT,
HOW ARE WE DOING DOWN THERE?
YES, SCOTTY,
TO RUN THE SHIP ALL OVER AGAIN.
WELL, WE JUST HAD TO LEARN
WORKING IN REVERSE.
EVERY CONTROL IS
ALL RIGHT, LIEUTENANT UHURA,
WE'RE GOING TO CONTACT
THAT SHIP AGAIN.
WE NEED SOME ANSWERS.
THE CAPELLAN FLOWER!
CAPTAIN KIRK!
BESIDES YOUR FLOWER, DEAR.
I'M SURE CAPTAIN KIRK
HAS OTHER PROBLEMS
YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND.
IT WAS ABOUT TO DIE
BEFORE WE ENTERED
THIS UNIVERSE,
IT'S IN FULL BLOOM AGAIN.
AND--AND NOW
HOW IS THAT POSSIBLE?
GROWING YOUNGER AGAIN.
IT'S AS IF IT WERE
I--I CAN ALMOST FEEL IT
WHILE I'M HOLDING IT.
CAPTAIN, THE FLOWER IS NOT
THE ONLY THING ON BOARD
-THAT IS GROWING YOUNGER.
-EXPLAIN, SPOCK.
Spock: SHIP'S CHRONOMETERS
ARE ALSO RUNNING BACKWARD.
IS REVERSED IN THIS UNIVERSE.
THE FLOW OF TIME
THE YOUNGER WE WILL BECOME.
THE LONGER WE STAY HERE,
OUR CALL, CAPTAIN.
IS RESPONDING TO
THE ALIEN SHIP
ALMOST COST ME MY LIFE.
YOUR INTERFERENCE
I CAN UNDERSTAND HER NOW,
THE UNIVERSAL TRANSLATOR.
WITHOUT THE AID OF
APPARENTLY OUR BRAINS
IN REVERSE, CAPTAIN,
ARE ALSO WORKING
UNDERSTAND HER LANGUAGE.
SO WE CAN NOW
THAT IS WHY THE SHIP
SEEMS TO BE OPERATING
IN THE REVERSE TO US.
I AM CAPTAIN JAMES T. KIRK
OF THE U.S.S. ENTERPRISE.
WE TRIED TO PREVENT YOU FROM
ENTERING THE BETA NIOBE NOVA.
WE ASSUMED YOUR SHIP
WOULD BURN UP.
TO MY OWN UNIVERSE,
I HAD TO RETURN
CAPTAIN KIRK.
HOW DID YOU COME TO BE
WELL, WHO ARE YOU?
IN OUR UNIVERSE?
I AM AN EXPLORER OF SPACE.
PREVIOUSLY A DEAD STAR,
I WAS CAUGHT UNAWARE
WHEN AMPHION,
WENT NOVA AND CAME TO LIFE.
I WAS PULLED INTO THE STAR.
BUT INSTEAD OF BURNING UP,
I PASSED INTO A UNIVERSE
WHERE EVERYTHING OPERATES
IN REVERSE TO MY UNIVERSE.
-OUR UNIVERSE?
-Karla Five: YES.
TWO STARS GOING NOVA
MY THEORY IS THAT
IN THE SAME PLACE
IN BOTH UNIVERSES
WHICH I PASSED THROUGH.
CREATED A GATEWAY
A NOVA IS A DEAD STAR
WHICH COMES TO LIFE.
IN HER UNIVERSE,
OF A NOVA IN HER UNIVERSE
AND WHEN THE EXPLOSIONS
AND ONE IN OUR UNIVERSE
OCCUR TOGETHER,
BETWEEN THE TWO UNIVERSES.
IT'S POSSIBLE TO TRAVEL
THEN WE MUST RETURN THE SAME
WAY, THROUGH THE TWO NOVAS.
Karla Five: THAT WOULD BE
IMPOSSIBLE, CAPTAIN.
AMPHION IS NO LONGER NOVA,
ITS LIFE AS A STAR.
IT HAS BEGUN
I SUGGEST YOU SET A COURSE
TO FOLLOW MY SHIP.
CAN HELP SOLVE YOUR PROBLEM.
PERHAPS OUR SCIENTISTS
WE HAVE LITTLE CHOICE.
CAPTAIN'S LOG, SUPPLEMENTAL.
Kirk:
KARLA FIVE'S PLANET, ARRET.
WE ARE PROCEEDING TO
GENTLEMEN, I'M SURE
NONE OF US MIND
GROWING YOUNGER INSTEAD OF
OLDER FOR A CHANGE.
IT PLEASES ME, JIM.
IF WE STAY HERE LONG ENOUGH,
AT THE MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE.
I'LL NO LONGER BE
RETURN HOME, AND I AM OPEN
NEVERTHELESS, WE MUST
TO SUGGESTIONS.
THAT WE MUST REPRODUCE
Spock: IT IS LOGICAL
THAT BROUGHT US HERE.
THE CONDITIONS
TWO NOVAS MUST OCCUPY
IN BOTH UNIVERSES
THE SAME SPACE
IN ORDER TO CREATE A GATEWAY
FOR US TO TRAVEL THROUGH.
IN OUR UNIVERSE,
ONE STAR DYING
AND ONE STAR BEING BORN HERE
THE CORRECT CONDITIONS.
WOULD RE-CREATE
THAT WOULD TAKE A REMARKABLE
COINCIDENCE, MR. SPOCK.
WE ARE APPROACHING ARRET.
CAPTAIN,
KARLA FIVE IS ASKING
IF YOU ARE PREPARED
TO BEAM DOWN TO THE PLANET.
TELL KARLA FIVE
THAT MR. SPOCK,
COMMODORE APRIL AND MYSELF
WILL BE BEAMING DOWN.
YES, SIR.
GIVEN US COORDINATES
KARLA FIVE HAS
SON'S LABORATORY, CAPTAIN.
TO BEAM DOWN TO HER
HER SON?
FOR CHILDREN'S GAMES
WE DON'T HAVE TIME
RIGHT NOW, SCOTTY,
BUT BEAM US DOWN.
AYE, SIR.
[CRYING]
MY SON, KARL FOUR.
MAY I INTRODUCE
MY HONOR TO MEET YOU,
GENTLEMEN.
MOST LOGICAL.
IF THE FLOW OF TIME
IS REVERSED,
THEN ONE IS BORN AT AN OLD AGE
AND DIES IN INFANCY.
ARE BORN BEFORE YOU
YOUR DESCENDANTS
AND YOUR ANCESTORS
ARE BORN AFTER YOU.
THEN THE YOUNG CHILD
IN THE PLAYPEN...
MY FATHER, CAPTAIN.
WE COULD REMAIN FOREVER AWED
WITH THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
OUR UNIVERSES, KARLA FIVE,
BUT WE MUST DISCOVER
A WAY TO RETURN
TO OUR POSITIVE
MATTER UNIVERSE.
I HAVE BEEN WORKING ON
EXACTLY THE PROBLEM
SINCE KARLA INFORMED ME
OF YOUR TROUBLES,
CAPTAIN KIRK.
THIS IS A MAP OF OUR GALAXY.
OUR HOME SOLAR SYSTEM IS HERE.
THROUGH THE AMPHION NOVA, HERE.
YOU ENTERED OUR UNIVERSE
Kirk: WE NEED TO COORDINATE
THIS TO OUR OWN UNIVERSE.
-CAN WE DO THAT, SPOCK?
-Spock: YES, CAPTAIN.
APPARENTLY THE TWO UNIVERSES
OCCUPY THE SAME SPACE,
BUT IN DIFFERENT DIMENSIONS.
AMPHION OCCUPY THE SAME SPACE,
ASSUMING BETA NIOBE AND
IF THERE ARE ANY OTHER NOVAS
WE CAN DETERMINE
OCCUPYING THE SAME SPACE
IN BOTH UNIVERSES.
CORRECT, COMMODORE.
NOW, IF YOU'LL WATCH
THE STAR MAP,
YOU'LL SEE THE MILKY WAY.
HERE IS BETA NIOBE.
AND HERE IS EARTH.
EXACTLY WITH ARRET.
IT CORRESPONDS
BY SUPERIMPOSING
BOTH STAR MAPS,
WHERE TWO STARS OCCUPY
WE WILL SEE
IN BOTH UNIVERSES.
THE SAME PLACE
THE RED SPHERES INDICATE
WHERE TWO STARS ARE
IN THE SAME SPACE.
NO PAIR ARE NOVAS
IN BOTH UNIVERSES.
IF STARS BEGIN AS
DEAD STARS HERE,
ONE TO LIFE, PREMATURELY.
THEN WE COULD BRING
GIVING BIRTH TO A STAR.
YES, WE COULD ACT
AS A MIDWIFE
THEN WE COULD HAVE TWO NOVAS
IN THE SAME POSITION
AND THEORETICALLY
RETURN HOME.
BUT I HAD TO PASS
THROUGH THE NOVAS
AT MY SHIP'S TOP SPEED
TO AVOID BURNING UP.
YOUR SHIP ISN'T CAPABLE
OF SUCH A SPEED.
THAT'S TRUE, CAPTAIN.
TO USE MY SHIP, CAPTAIN.
YOU ARE WELCOME
I HAVE A CREW OF 430,
KARLA FIVE.
YOUR SHIP IS SUITABLE
FOR ONLY A FEW PEOPLE.
TO TRANSPORT US, CAPTAIN,
WE CAN'T USE HER SHIP
BUT WE COULD USE IT
AS AN UNMANNED SHIP
TRACTOR BEAM ATTACHED.
WITH OUR
ARRIVED HERE IN THE FIRST PLACE.
IT COULD WORK. THAT'S HOW WE
IT SHOULD WORK, YES.
BUT ANY MISCALCULATION
ANYWHERE ALONG THE WAY
TAIL FIRST INTO A SUPERNOVA.
AND WE'LL BE PLUNGING
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 6770.1.
FLOW BACKWARD FOR US.
TIME CONTINUES TO
FOR A DEAD STAR IN THIS
ANTI-MATTER UNIVERSE
WE HAVE SET COURSE
THE NOVA MINARA IN OURS.
THAT CORRESPONDS WITH
KARLA FIVE'S UNMANNED VESSEL,
WE'RE BEING PULLED BY
WHICH IS EQUIPPED WITH ENOUGH
POSITIVE MATTER ARMAMENT
TO IGNITE THE DEAD STAR
INTO LIFE.
BABEL AFTER ALL, COMMODORE.
WE JUST MIGHT GET YOU TO
BUT NOT NECESSARILY TO BABEL.
I'LL BE GLAD TO GET HOME,
THE END OF MY CAREER, JIM.
IT ONLY MEANS
FROM ARRET, CAPTAIN.
MESSAGE COMING IN
I WANT TO WISH YOU LUCK,
CAPTAIN.
WHETHER YOU SUCCEED OR FAIL,
REMAIN UNKNOWN TO ME.
THE OUTCOME WILL
YES, KARLA FIVE.
OR ESCAPE INTO OUR OWN UNIVERSE.
WE'LL BURN TO A CRISP
EITHER WAY, YOU'LL NEVER
HEAR FROM US AGAIN.
THANK YOU FOR THE SACRIFICE
OF YOUR VESSEL.
IT IS A SMALL SACRIFICE,
CAPTAIN KIRK.
SUCCESS.
WORKING PROPERLY, CAPTAIN.
TRACTOR BEAM
KARLA FIVE'S UNMANNED VESSEL,
WE'RE MEETING THE SPEED OF
CAPTAIN.
THE YOUNGEST CREW MEMBER
HOW MUCH TIME BEFORE
RETURNS TO THE TIME OF BIRTH?
18 MINUTES, 37 SECONDS
IN REAL TIME.
WE SHALL ALL BE CHILDREN.
BUT LONG BEFORE THAT
THAT ALSO MEANS
AND, CAPTAIN,
WE ARE LOSING OUR KNOWLEDGE
AT AN ALARMING RATE.
IT IS POSSIBLE WE WILL
OPERATE THE ENTERPRISE.
SOON BE UNABLE TO
HOW IS OUR COURSE, MR. SULU?
WHAT AM I DOING HERE?
I DON'T KNOW.
WHAT IS ALL THIS EQUIPMENT?
HE'S TOO YOUNG, CAPTAIN.
MR. AREX, TAKE OVER FOR HIM.
REPORT TO NAVIGATION CONSOLE.
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
UNDERSTAND ALL THIS EQUIPMENT.
I'M SORRY, SIR. I DON'T
WITH THESE CONTROLS?
WHAT DO I DO
NEVER MIND. SPOCK, CAN YOU
FILL IN FOR SULU AND UHURA?
YES, CAPTAIN.
-BUT WHO WILL FILL IN FOR YOU?
-WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
AT WHAT AGE DID YOU BECOME
A STARSHIP CAPTAIN?
AND WHEN DID YOU ENTER
STARFLEET ACADEMY?
I SEE WHAT YOU MEAN.
I AGE THE SLOWEST.
AS A VULCAN,
LONGER THAN ANYONE ELSE.
OF ASSUMING COMMAND
I WILL BE CAPABLE
TOO YOUNG TO KNOW WHAT TO DO.
BUT EVEN I WILL BECOME
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
WE HAVE 11 MINUTES
OF REAL TIME LEFT
TO REACH THE DEAD STAR,
ARE TURNING INTO CHILDREN,
BUT ALL AROUND, MY CREW
UNABLE TO OPERATE THE SHIP.
14.21 SECONDS, CAPTAIN.
Spock: TEN MINUTES,
WITH ONLY MOMENTS TO SPARE.
WE SHALL ARRIVE
DISCONNECT THE TRACTOR BEAM
AT THE APPROPRIATE TIME.
WE WILL NEED TO
HOW DO WE DO THAT, SPOCK?
TRACTOR BEAM?
I MUST ASSUME COMMAND.
CAPTAIN,
TO COMMAND THE ENTERPRISE.
YOU ARE NO LONGER ABLE
WHATEVER YOU SAY.
WHAT SHALL I DO?
AS LONG AS I AM ABOARD,
I AM SENIOR OFFICER.
MR. SPOCK,
I HATE TO PULL RANK, BUT YOU
WILL BE CAPABLE OF COMMAND
ONLY FOR A FEW MINUTES,
NECESSARY TO TAKE US HOME.
COMPLETE THE MANEUVERS
NOT LONG ENOUGH TO
YOU ARE CORRECT, OF COURSE.
COMMODORE APRIL,
COMMAND IS YOURS.
COMMODORE?
I'M CAPTAIN APRIL, MR. SPOCK.
WE'RE THE ONLY ADULTS
ON THE BRIDGE.
ROBERT,
THEY'RE ALL TEENAGERS
AND CHILDREN.
COMES TO THEM, SARAH.
MAKE SURE NO HARM
IF WE'RE GOING HOME.
WE HAVE TO IGNITE
THAT DEAD STAR
YOU ARE STILL CAPABLE
OF FOLLOWING ORDERS?
MR. SPOCK,
-YES, CAPTAIN.
-VERY GOOD.
AT THE NAVIGATION CONSOLE.
ASSUME YOUR POST
IS DIRECTLY AHEAD, CAPTAIN,
THE DEAD STAR
OF GALACTIC PLANE.
12 DEGREES SOUTH
ARM KARLA FIVE'S VESSEL,
SPOCK.
VESSEL ARMED, CAPTAIN.
NINE SECONDS TO IMPACT.
8, 7...
3, 2...
WE'RE GOING RIGHT INTO
THE HEART OF THE NOVA.
HANG ON.
WE DID IT! WE'RE HOME AGAIN!
WE'RE ALL RIGHT. WE'RE HOME.
THE REVERSE AGING PROCESS
HAS STOPPED.
-[CRYING]
-BUT THE ENTERPRISE CREW,
THEY'RE ALL CHILDREN.
THE TRANSPORTER.
THEY CAN ENTER
IT RETAINS A MEMORY OF THEIR
ORIGINAL MOLECULAR STRUCTURE.
BUT WHAT ABOUT US?
USE THE TRANSPORTER.
WE DON'T HAVE TO
LIVE OUR LIVES OVER AGAIN.
WE CAN REMAIN YOUNG,
A STARSHIP ONCE MORE.
YOU COULD COMMAND
ONE'S LIFE OVER AGAIN,
TO BE ABLE TO LIVE
WHAT A BLESSING
HAS LEFT YOU UNFULFILLED.
IF THE LIFE YOU'VE LED
NO, SARAH, I DON'T WANT TO
LIVE IT ALL OVER AGAIN.
I COULDN'T IMPROVE ONE BIT
ON WHAT WE'VE HAD TOGETHER.
OH, ROBERT.
WE'VE RECEIVED A MESSAGE
FROM THE FEDERATION
THAT MIGHT BRING YOU
SOME CHEER.
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
WOULD YOU RELAY IT
TO COMMODORE APRIL
AND HIS WIFE?
IN VIEW OF COMMODORE APRIL'S
HEROIC ACTIONS
ABOARD THE U.S.S. ENTERPRISE
THIS STARDATE,
HIS MANDATORY RETIREMENT,
WE ARE REVIEWING
HIS APPEAL TO REMAIN
AND WILL CONSIDER
AMBASSADOR-AT-LARGE.
FEDERATION
WELL, GOOD.
JUST BECAUSE SOMEONE
IS 75 YEARS OLD
DOESN'T MEAN THEY'RE READY
TO STOP GIVING SERVICE
TO THE GALAXY.
ARRIVING AT BABEL IN ONE HOUR,
15 MINUTES, CAPTAIN.
HAS BLOSSOMED AGAIN.
I SEE YOUR FLOWER
YES, OUR TRIP INTO
THE NEGATIVE UNIVERSE
GAVE IT A SECOND LIFE.
IT GAVE ALL OF US
A SECOND LIFE.